SECTION 11: They following shall not be liable to the business licence:
1. the State, regional and local authorities, public establishments and
government agencies, for cultural, educational, health, social, sport or
tourist activities carried out by them regardless of their turnover tax
situation;
2. hawkers, be they in the streets, public places or in flower or grocery
markets;
3. street vendors of newspapers and periodicals, excluding any other articles
of stationery, and provided their activity has been duly declared in
accordance with the law in force;
4. business associates in a partnership, in joint-stock, Limited liability or
incorporated companies;
5. songwriters;
6. savings and insurance funds managed free of charge as well as mutual
assistance schemes, provided they are duly authorized and function in
accordance with their set objectives;
7. canteen managers, provided they do not sell alcoholic drinks to the public;
8. hospitals run by religious bodies or not-for-profit organizations;
5

9. growers, farmers, stock breeders for the sale and handling of harvest and
fruits from the fields belonging to them or which they exploit, or for the
sale of the animals they rear, care for or fatten;
10.company stores, farmers' unions and consumer cooperatives, provided
they possess no shops and confine themselves to grouping the orders of
their members and distributing in their stores the commodities, produce or
merchandise ordered;
11.private establishments for the reception and vocational training of poor
children;
12.schools;
13.explorers and hunters ;
14.fishermen and registered seamen personally involved in fishing and
selling their own catch;
15.persons liable to the discharge tax;
16.canoe operators with the exception of those using a motor or steam vessel;
17.farmers selling firewood coming solely from clearing their farms for
cultivation;
18.owners or leaseholders of salt marshes;
19.landlords or tenants accidentally renting furnished parts of their personal
houses, where such rental is not periodic in nature;
20.wage and salary earners in respect of their paid employment only;
21.rural development cooperative societies, agricultural mutual benefit and
credit schemes operating in accordance with their set objectives;
22.cooperative societies and/or their unions as well as common initiative
groups (CIGs) aimed at:
a) either carrying out or facilitating all operations for the
production, conservation or sale of farm produce harvested
exclusively from farms owned by members;
b) or providing their members with farm equipment machines
and instruments for their own use;
6

23.commercial and industrial travellers and representatives who may be
working for one or more houses, whether paid by commission or fixed
salary provided they have no trading character independent of their
principals.
II. II.
T EMPORARY EXEMPTION :