article 130 of the above mentioned law.
Articles 73 to 76: The tax on fire arms
1) Liability
The tax on fire arms is due for a year by any holder of a fire arm, even out of
use, and who is bound to make the declaration at the latest on the 15 March of
the year in question at the council where the arm is located.
The keeping of a fire arm alone at the 1st of January of the year, whatever the
use made of it by the holder, entails liability for the tax on fire arms for the
year in question. However, it should be noted that the keeping by dealers of
arms in their stores and warehouses, for sale does not make them liable to this
tax. Meanwhile, using these arms makes the dealer liable.
Use of firearms is constituted by either personal usage for whatever end, or by
the putting on hire for shooting stands, or by any other usage having as effect
removing the arms from the warehouses and stores, even if the dealer remains
its owner.
The following are exempted from the tax on fire arms, apart from firearms
dealers as specified above:
- The State for all the arms belonging to it including arms provided for
the various defence or security forces and those confiscated and kept by
administrative services, the police, the gendarmerie or the courts;
- Ordinance arms belonging to military men in active service and to reserve
officers.
2) Assessment
Persons liable for payment of tax on firearms are required to declare and pay
the tax on firearms at the council of location of the weapon, on or before 15
March each year. The municipality of the place of location of the weapon is
the place of residence of the owner.
The law has instituted the establishment at the latest 15 March of the current year,
of a list of weapons held within the territorial jurisdiction of the municipality
by the Divisional Officer and the head of the municipal executive. In the
preparation of this list, the head of the municipal executive conducts census
of persons holding firearms within the jurisdiction of the council, notably by
inviting the people to declare their weapons through billboards and press.
Since citizens have the obligation to obtain an authorisation for carring firearms
for some categories of weapons, the exploitation of the card index of holders
of weapon can be carried out in view of the constitution of the said list.
3) Sanctions
Any concealment of taxable weapons, illegal detention or misrepresentation
gives rise to a penalty of 100% of the evaded fee payable immediately in
General Tax Code – 2023 Official Edition - 437

addition to the principal amount of the tax normally due, without prejudice to
the penalties laid down in the regulation on arms.