(08) days will be mentioned in the formal summons to pay.
b) Implementing forceful recovery proceedings
Within the framework of the implementation of recovery proceedings on local
taxes where recovery is the responsibility of the tax administration, compliance
with procedures of the Manual of Tax Procedures is mandatory.
After serving the tax liability by NTC or by collection order in the manner
prescribed under sections M.53 of the MTP and 411 of the GTC, and a summons
demanding payment, unanswered after the time specified in section M.56 of
the same Manual, the prosecution proceeding provided under section M.55
et seq. may be considered.
You should ensure that special recovery or common law proceedings must be
carried out by sworn recovery agents.
B - MODES OF COLLECTING COUNCIL FEES
General Tax Code – 2023 Official Edition - 455

BY THE COMPETENT COUNCIL AUTHORITY
As regards municipal taxes, the mode of recovery concerns all charges
collected by the council, excluding local development tax which is governed
by rules applicable to taxes collected by the State Tax Service.
1. VOLUNTARY RECOVERY OF COUNCIL TAXES
a) General Principle
Council taxes are assessed and issued solely by the assessment service of
place the location of the property or service rendered and collected by the
municipal revenue collector.
In principle, the debt is assessed on an issue slip by the relevant service of the
council and paid directly to the municipal revenue collector against a receipt.
However, the nature of certain activities and certain taxes can lead to specific
terms of collection.
Taxes directly paid at to the cashier of the municipal revenue collector via a
collection order are:
- Slaughter tax (Sections 63, 64, 65): It is directly assessed by the revenue
collector and paid by the butcher before any slaughter;
- Tax on livestock (Sections 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71 and 72): It is paid on or
before March 15 each year. It is based on the declaration made by taxpayer
to the council of the location of the herd and assessment is directly done by
the revenue collector on a collection order.
- The tax on firearms (Sections 73, 74, 75, 76):
It is paid on or before March 15 each year. It is based on taxpayer’s declaration
to the council of the location of the firearm and assessed by the revenue
collector on a collection order;
- Stadium fee (Section 102): the payment is made against a receipt to the
municipal revenue collector.
b) Specific modes of payment:
The issuance of a collection order:
This is a collection writ issued by the Head of the Municipal Executive
acknowledging the municipal debt payable directly to the revenue collector. It
is used in connection with the recovery of the following:
Impoundment fees (Sections 78 and 79): they are collected by the revenue
collector upon presentation of a collection order issued by the municipal
administrator.
Duty on building permits (Sections 87, 88, 89, 90) The recovery of this tax
is done by the revenue collector in the light of a collection order issued by the
Head of the Municipal Executive.
Entertainment tax (Sections 100 and 101) The fee is paid to the municipal
revenue collector against issuance of a receipt.
Fees for temporary occupation of the highway (Sections: 91, 92, 93) The
Payment is done to the council revenue collector upon presentation of the
occupation permit accompanied by a payment order issued by the Head of the
municipal executive.
Fees for degrading the roadway (Sections 105 and 106)Tax on pavement degradation is collected by
the council revenue collector upon presentation of an authorization and collection order issued by the
head of the municipal executive.
General Tax Code – 2023 Official Edition - 456

Taxes levied against issuance of a receipt drawn from a receipt booklet:This mode of payment
consists of issuing a ticket drawn from a receipt booklet
upon payment of an amount of tax. The agent responsible for the collection
then remits the sum collected to the municipal revenue collector and receives a
receipt. The issuance of a ticket from a receipt booklet is the mode of recovery
of the following fees:
Fees for market space (Sections 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85 and 86):Rents from stores and the proceeds of
ticket sales are collected by an
intermediary agent who issues a receipt drawn from a booklet and carrying a
printed face value equivalent to the duration of the monthly rent or the cost
of the ticket.
The total amount collected is paid to the council revenue collector within 24
hours upon presentation of payment order issued by the competent communal
authority.
- Motor-park fee (Sections 97 and 98) The fee is paid to council agents
assigned to parking lots who issues a council ticket drawn from a receipt
booklet carrying the face value of the ticket in relation to the vehicle type. The
agent shall remit the revenue collected to the municipal revenue collector.
Dock ticket (Section 99) The fee is paid to the council agent assigned to the
motor park or in a municipal pier against a dock ticket drawn from a secured
receipt booklet carrying the corresponding face value.
Transit or transhumance tax (Section 107) This tax is levied by the
intermediary agent with the assistance of traditional authorities and/or
veterinary workers. It is paid against a receipt issued from a receipt booklet
duly numbered and signed by the revenue collector of the council.
Given the mobile nature of the activity subject to this tax, it can either be
paid directly to the coffers of the municipal revenue, or anywhere where the
right to charge the tax is established by a council agent, assisted by traditional
authorities and/or veterinary workers.
Tax on the transportation of quarry products (Sections 108, 109 and110).
The tax on the transportation of quarry products is collected by an intermediary
agent who issues a receipt from a secured receipt booklet carrying a face value
indicating the rate voted by the council.
Car parking fee (Sections 111 and 112)
The parking fee is paid before any use of the parking lot. It is collected by
an intermediary agent who issues a receipt from a secured receipt booklet
carrying a face value indicating the hourly, daily or monthly rate voted by the
council.
However, payment can be done directly to council agents assigned to parking
lots. The revenue collected must be remitted to the municipal revenue collector
within 24 hours of collection.
 Tax collected against the deliverance of a stamp or tax disc
Some council taxes are collected against the deliverance of an adhesive stamp
or a tax disc. This is the case with:
 communal stamp dues (section 104): it is collected by the municipal
revenue collector against the deliverance of a stamp carrying a specific
face value. In any case, the deliverance of stamp should be preceded by the
payment of the corresponding amount.
General Tax Code – 2023 Official Edition - 457

 Parking fee (Section 94, 95, 96): it is paid against the deliverance of a
stamp similar to a tax disc within a 15 days dateline following the beginning
every annual quarter.
2. INSTITUTION OF FORCEFUL RECOVERY PROCEEDING IN
MATTERS OF COUNCIL TAXES
As far as the forceful recovery proceedings on council tax is concerned, if the
tax payer does not respond to the recovery notice within 15 days following
reception, the revenue collector can proceed to forceful recovery. He therefore
notifies the defaulter by way of a warning representing an order to pay in eight
days. Failure to respond within the mentioned deadline will lead to the seizure
of the taxpayers’ goods.
With effect from the date of seizure, the maintenance, conservation of the
goods as well as the feeding of seized livestock is at the expense of the
defaulting taxpayer.
The municipal revenue collector draws up a report of proceedings which he
submits to the mayor for approval. After a thirty