Article 78: Pounding fees
1) Liability
Impounding fees are due by the owners and holders of straying animals and
objects found without keeper or placed in violation of the regulation on the
traffic system. For the purpose of this measure, it is necessary that any of the
liability criteria mentioned below be fulfilled:
- stray animals;
- establishment of a breach of traffic regulations;
- the existence of objects without keeper.
Stray animals should be understood as all animals found on the public
thoroughfare without an owner. The offence to the regulation on the traffic
system on its part is defined as any alleged breach of regulation on the use of
the public thoroughfare notably the failure to present the parking tax stamp,
failure to pay the parking fee, irregular occupation of the public thoroughfare.
For its part, the object without owner refers to any abandoned movable good
which is found on the public highway.
2) Modalities for the collection of pound fees
The generating event of the pounding fees which coincides with the due date
of the said fees is constituted by the entry of the good in a constructed and
secured enclosure, materialized by a pounding report issued by the council
staff or by the staff of the judicial police.
The simple establishment of the infringement does not lead to impounding of
the good, but the collection of simple police fines. The impounding fees are
therefore not payable at the time of seizure of property.
For the application of impounding fees, it is up to the council or the city
council of the locality to fix by deliberation the applicable rates within the
limits laid down in article 79. It is thus up to the said municipality to inform
taxation services within its jurisdiction as soon as possible about the chosen
rates. Lack of information would lead the taxation services to apply the rates
in force during the previous year.
When this dues are applied for the first time within the jurisdiction of the
municipality, without the latter communicating the resolutions of the
deliberations fixing the applicable rates, the maximum legal rates will
be applied up to the holding of a deliberation setting out the rate to be
applied.
3) Sanctions
Impounding fees constitute a sanction. As a result, they come to supplement
the fees for the breach of traffic regulations. The proportion of impounding
fees due by the offender is proportional to the number of days, the rates being
General Tax Code – 2023 Official Edition - 438

fixed on a daily basis. The payment of the charges to the municipal revenue
collector immediately puts an end to the impoundment.
In case of non-payment of the impounding charges within the time limits
to the municipal revenue collector, he would go ahead, 30 days after the
pounding, to issue a warning to the owner or holder which is tantamount to an
order to pay. This formal notice grants him an additional period of eight days
to execute.
The warning takes the form of a letter addressed to the liable person to his
known address, or failing which by posting on billboards at the local council
concerned. The revenue collector carries out the discharge of the fees due by
the liable person and gives back the eventual balance to him.
Articles 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85 of 86: Market tolls
1) Liability
Tolls for a space on markets such as presented by the law on local taxation are
collected from both regular traders and occasional sellers who occupy a space
in all the market belonging to the subdivisional council or the city council as
the case may be.
The regular trader is understood as the one who, in a continuous or habitual
manner, occupies a specific and permanent space in a market, whereas the
occasional seller is the one who exercises in a fortuitous or accidental manner
in the said market.
2) Assessment
The fixing of the tariffs pertaining to the right of space on the market, should
take into account the standard of living, the specialization of markets and the
situation of major supply centers.
Disparity in life style should be understood as each locality to having a
standard of life that suits its degree of development. As such, the higher the
standard of living, the higher the toll for market space.
The specificity of the markets for its part is due to the fact that, some markets
differ from others in relation to their size, the type of goods sold and the
volume of revenue that they generate.
With regards to the consideration of big supply centers, a ruling should be
given based on the fact that the tariffs are high, depending on whether one is
nearer the big supply centers, and lower depending on whether one is further
away from the said centers.
The abovementioned dues are payable as from the signature of the lease
agreement between the council and the trader, as concerns the regular seller,
and are payable at maturity of the contract. For the occasional seller, the
generating factor and the liability coincide with each other, which implies
that the dues are payable and paid as from the installation of the goods in the
market.
3) Sanctions
A fine ranging from CFA 5,000 francs and CFA 10,000 francs is provided for
in case of sub-letting or the nonpayment of the dues per day.
The counting of the deadline here runs as from the day when the sub-letting
or the nonpayment is established, on a report drawn up by a council agent and
co-signed by the insolvent trader.
The sanctions for daily dues are to the tune of a due in addition to the one
General Tax Code – 2023 Official Edition - 439

regularly due, or the confiscation of the goods until the payment of the
corresponding fine.
Articles 87, 88, 89, 90: building or installation permit fees
The Law on local taxation gives specifications on the collection of fees on
building or implantation permit.
1) Liability
By building or implantation permit, we mean the authorization that a user
solicits from the municipal administrator for a construction or an installation,
be it in temporary materials or in permanent materials, simple adjustments
or new constructions. The fees subsequent to the planned construction or
development, at the headquarters of the council or in the agglomerations, are
proportional to the value of the construction.
2) Assessment
For the determination of the value of the construction, or the developments, an
estimate should be made, and approved by the municipal technical services.
The fees accruing thereto are due from the moment the estimate is approved
by the competent service, and payable before the issuance of the requested
permit.
The said fees are collected by the city council services for the subdivisional
councils and by the councils in towns not having city councils.
Building permit fees to be paid represent 1% of the value of the construction
authorized by the technical services of the council.
3) Sanctions
Default of the building or installation permit is liable to a fine of 30% of the
fees due paid in favour of the council.
However, the application of the above fine does not exempt the debtor from
the payment of the fees normally due.
No other sanction should be applicable, except for the measures provided for
by law.
The liability of the abovementioned 30% fine runs as from the day of
commencement of the works.
Articles: 91, 92, 93: Temporal occupation of the public thoroughfare fee
1) Scope
By temporal occupation of the public thoroughfare, we mean any installation
or use of the public thoroughfare as determined by the act which authorizes it
issued by the competent municipal authority. The public thoroughfare or right
of way is understood here as a parcel for public use, such as road, easements,
roads. This occupation can be materialized by deposits of materials including
sand, stones, wood, and display of furniture, goods or any other objects.
Moreover, as from the entry into force of the new law, filling stations, vehicles
and advertising media are excluded from the scope of the said fees.
2) Assessment
The collection of the fees for temporary occupation of the public thoroughfare
arises from its occupation. The due dates of such fees shall run from the
effective occupation of the thoroughfare in question.
General Tax Code – 2023 Official Edition - 440

The tariff of the fees for temporary occupation of the thoroughfare is voted by
the council with the maximum rate of 2,000 francs per m2 per day.
3) Sanctions
The lack of authorization or reduction of the area occupied, delay or default
of payment shall entail the application of a penalty of 100% of the amount of
duty owed in principal.
In case of unauthorized occupation, fees and subsequent penalties are due as
from the first day of effective occupation of the space in question.
Articles 94, 95, 96: Parking fee
1) Liability
The collection of the parking fee can take place in towns and cities where
municipalities have made arrangements for parking sites or traffic plan.
2) Method of taxation
The parking fee is collected quarterly by the municipality of the domicile of
the carrier at the following maximum rates:
- Bikes: 3,000 francs;
- Taxi: 10,000 francs;
- Bus: 15,000.
Cars or vehicles not specifically covered by law are exempt from paying the
parking fee.
The liability of the tax is due on or before the fifteenth day following the
beginning of each quarter.
The parking fee is levied against issuance of a parking license, in the model
of the windscreen license
Modalities for ordering, security and sale of the parking license are set by a
particular text.
Distribution of proceeds of the parking fee:
- City council of the establishment ... ... ... .... ... ... ... ... ... ... .... 80%
- Share of FEICOM ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .... ... ... ... ... ... ... 20%
The subdivisional councils do not receive the proceeds from the parking tax.
Articles 97 and 98: Parking lot fees
1) Liability
Occupancy fees of parking lots shall be payable by operators of vehicles for
the transportation of goods and people such as, trucks, vans and buses only.
However, the institution of the fee is contingent on the existence of a space
designated for that purpose by the municipality, the city council or the
subdivisional council as appropriate.
2) Assessment
Payment of parking fees is determined by vehicle access to the parking lot.
The maximum rates of the right to occupy the parking lots are set as follows:
- Small Buses and trucks: 1,000 francs per day;
- Big Trucks and buses: 2,000 francs a day.
The parking fee is paid against a receipt.
The methods of controlling, securing and managing receipts from parking
fees shall be determined by a particular text.
3) Penalties
General Tax Code – 2023 Official Edition - 441

Failure to pay fees or parking outside the parking lot, must be evidenced by
a statement made by the municipal officer on duty. It entails not only the
payment of duties owed in principal, but also the impounding of the vehicle.