Article 107: The municipal tax transit or transhumance tax
1) Liability
The municipal transit tax is a levy on cattle from a neighbouring country that
passes through Cameroon to another neighbouring country.
General Tax Code – 2023 Official Edition - 445

The transhumance tax for its part is collected when cattle from a neighbouring
country comes and pastures for some time on Cameroonian territory.
16) Assessment
The distinction between the two taxes is a function of the duration of the
livestock on the territory of the council.
For the transit tax, liability and due dates are represented by the entry of the
herd into the municipal territory. The transhumance tax for its part is payable
as from the 16th day after the entry of the herd.
Thus, a herd is in transit up to the 15th day following its entry into the municipal
area. From the 16th day, it is deemed to be in transhumance. Therefore, payment
of the municipal transit tax at a council upon the entry of the herd does not
preclude the payment of the transhumance tax to the same council as from the
16th day.
The owner of the herd and any person accompanying the herd are jointly and
severally liable for payment of these taxes.
The rates of the transit tax and the transhumance tax are fixed as follows:
- Cattle and horses: 200 to 500 francs per head of cattle and per municipality;
- Sheep and goats: 100 to 300 francs per head of cattle and per municipality.
It should be noted that the revenue collected under the transit tax or
transhumance tax is destined integrally to the council concerned and is not
subject to equalization.
17) Sanctions
Fraud in the payment of the transit tax or transhumance tax is punishable by a
penalty of 100% of principal amount due for each animal concealed.
Articles 108 to 110: Tax on the transportation of quarry products
18) Liability
The law offers the possibility for municipalities that host quarries within their
territory to institute a tax on the transport of products of the said quarry.
It applies only to vehicles used to transport products extracted from the quarry, to
the exclusion of vehicles used in the exploitation of the said quarry.
19) Method of taxation
The generating event is the effective loading of the products in the quarry.
The maximum rates fixed by law are:
- Vehicle less than 6 tones: 1,000 francs per truck and per trip;
- Vehicles with 6 to 10 tones: 2,000 francs per truck and per trip;
- Vehicles over 10 tones: 3,000 francs per truck and per trip.
The vehicle owner and the transporter are jointly and severally liable for
payment of this tax.
20) Sanctions
The nonpayment of the tax for the transportation of quarry products shall lead
to the impounding of the vehicle.