(5)
years shall be deducted
General Tax Code – 2023 Official Edition - 11

their deduction may not be allowed may not exceed 50% of bad debts
beyond a period of ten year. and commitments per annum ;
Small equipment and tolls. - over a three years period, for bad
debts and doubtful commitments
The threshold for small equipment
whose risks are not covered by
and tools which should be recorded
collateral securities. In this case,
under assets shall be fixed at five
deductions may not exceed:
hundred thousand (500, 000) CFAF.
 25 % for the first year,
E - Provisions
 50 % for the second year,
Provisions constituted to meet clearly  25 % for the third year.
specified losses or charges rendered
The situation of these provisions
probable by the course of events, must be definitely determined at the
provided that they are actually shown end of the third year of their
in the annual accounts and appear in constitution, with the exception of
the statement of provisions specified those which concern bad debts and
in Section 18 hereafter. doubtful commitments brought
Besides the general conditions for before law courts.
deduction of the provisions provided In no event shall any provision be
for above, the provisions for doubtful constituted for charges accountable,
debts must: by their nature, in the year in which
- consist of receivables recorded on they are incurred.
the assets side of the balance sheet
F - Claims and debts expressed in
and not covered by real guarantees;
foreign currency
- have given rise, against the debtor,
to the implementation of the Losses incurred during exchange
amicable or forced recovery transactions may not require the
procedures and means provided for accumulation of deductible
by the OHADA Uniform Act on the provisions.
organization of simplified recovery
However, currency conversion
and enforcement procedures.
margins, claims and debts expressed
For the specific case of credit in foreign currencies, as opposed to
establishments, with the exception of the amounts initially entered into the
provisions for bad debts whose accounts, shall be assessed at the end
allocation is optional, the deduction of each financial year, taking into
of provisions for bad debts and account exchange rates which are
doubtful commitments shall be used to determine the taxable
effected as follows: turnover for the financial year.
- over a two years period, for bad Currency conversion margins
debts and doubtful commitments concerning less than one year old
whose risks are not covered either debts expressed in foreign currencies
by collateral securities or State shall be deductible in determining the
guarantee. In this case, deduction
General Tax Code – 2023 Official Edition - 12

taxable turnover for the same Section 8 (b) (new).-