(2) of The General Tax Code (GTC), the absence
of proof of payment of stamp duty on motor vehicles and the nonpayment of these duties constitute
offences of the second and third class respectively punishable by the penal code.
The said code states that second class offences are punishable by a fine ranging from one thousand
four hundred (1 400) to two thousand four hundred (2 400) francs CFA inclusively.
As for the nonpayment of the stamp duty on motor vehicles constituting a 3rd class offence, it is
punishable by a fine ranging from two thousand six hundred (2 600) to three thousand six hundred
(3 600) inclusively.
In both instances, the discovery of any of the offences entails the impounding of the vehicle or
machine.
Examples:
1st situation: nonpayment found during control
During joint controls by MINFI, forces of law and order and insurance companies, a driver is held
for absence of proof of payment of stamp duty on motor vehicles by the control agents. His personal
documents as well as those of the vehicle or motorcycle are confiscated and deposited at the
taxation services against a receipt.
In this particular situation, sanctions for the nonpayment of stamp duty on motor vehicles
discovered during control constitute at the penal level a third class offence punishable at both the
fiscal and penal levels, that is a penalty over and above the duty payable and a fine ranging from
two thousand six hundred (2 600) to three thousand six hundred (3 600) francs inclusively and the
impounding of the vehicle.
2nd situation: Late renewal of the insurance policy
A driver who goes to an insurance company on Thursday 21st December 2017 to renew his
insurance policy that had expired since July 31st 2017 is not supposed to be punished.
The payment of stamp duty on motor vehicles within the same year does not call for fiscal or penal
sanctions. Consequently, there is no liability to a penalty over and above the duty payable.
3rd situation: absence of proof of payment at the end of the year
General Tax Code – 2023 Official Edition - 414

A driver whose insurance policy subscribed in 2017 voluntarily comes to the insurance company
for renewal on the 3rd of January 2018 is liable to fiscal sanctions.
In fact, the nonrenewal of an expired insurance policy at the end of the year is synonymous to the
nonpayment of the stamp duty on motor vehicles thus attracting fiscal sanctions of a penalty over
and above the duty payable.
B. Modalities of disputes in the domain of stamp duty on motor vehicles
When penalties of an additional duty equal to the ordinary fee is charged against the owner of a
vehicle, the following situations may arise:
- he accepts and pays the ordinary fee plus penalties or he pays the ordinary fee and requests for a
waiver of penalties ;
- he contests the stamp duty claimed against him on the basis that his vehicle is not in circulation.
1) The procedure of remission of penalties
In conformity with the provisions of section 571 of the General Tax Code, a reduction or waiver of
penalties can be granted following a stamped application done by the taxpayer according to the
following modalities:
- when the delay is less than one month, reduction or waiver of penalties can be granted after payment
of the ordinary fee.
- when the delay is more than one month, a reduction or waiver of penalties can be granted only after
payment of the ordinary fee plus 10% of the penalties.
The application for reduction or waiver of penalties is addressed to the Head of the Tax Center of
the real tax payer. For the application to be accepted, it must be signed by the applicant, be stamped,
and accompanied by the following:
- proof of payment of the ordinary fee and 10% of the penalties in the case where the delay is above
one