Article 99: Platform ticket
1) Liability
The law on local taxation institutes a tax on loading made in a bus station or in
a municipal wharf built by the municipality. For this purpose, any vehicle or
boat is subject to payment of a platform ticket, once it gets into a bus station
or a wharf.
Similarly, any transportation vehicle or any boat that packs even outside the
bus station or wharf also remains subject to payment of the said ticket.
2) Assessment
The tariffs fixed should be regarded as maxima. Therefore, the rates actually
applied in each municipality are set by the deliberative body, under the
conditions and limitations relating thereto.
As a reminder, the maximum rates set by law are:
a) Bus station: 200 francs per load.
b) Wharfs:
- Canoe without an engine: 200 francs per load;
- Engine boats of less than 10 seats: 500 francs per load;
- Engine boats of more than 10 seats: 1,000 francs per load.
The fee is due as soon as the loading is effective, and payable upon boarding
of the vehicle or boat to benefit of the council that owns the bus station or the
wharf.
The fee is paid against the issuance of a ticket.
The modalities of ordering, security and management of platform tickets are
set by a particular text.
3) Sanctions
Failure to pay the platform ticket shall be established by the non-presentation
of the ticket, or refusal to pay that fee. It shall entail the payment of a
penalty of 100% of the amount due in principal and duties normally owed.
Articles 100 and 101: Tax on spectacles (shows)
The law on local taxation specifies the scope of the tax on spectacles. The
latter is levied and collected by the district councils and for their benefit.
1) Liability
The tax on spectacles is payable during all exhilarating events held regularly
or occasionally for profit, excluding performances for a charitable purpose.
This tax applies particularly to activities in the following institutions:
- Cinemas;
- ballrooms including village halls;
- theatres, concert, exhibition;
- Cabarets, nightclubs, discos;
- Cafés, bars, dancing;
- Video clubs.
To these establishments are added outdoor or open air events.
The shows organized habitually as opposed to occasional performances
refer to events that take place regularly, according to a known periodicity,
meanwhile the occasionally show occurs spontaneously and irregularly in time.
General Tax Code – 2023 Official Edition - 442

In addition, charity events should be understood as those organized on a nonprofit basis or freely i.e.
that does not result in the realisation of gain or profit.
1) Assessment
The rates for regular performances are set by the municipal council, depending
on the type of show, in a range between 10,000 and 100,000 francs per quarter
and per establishment.
The type of show is referring specifically to the size of the show given the
potential revenue that such shows could generate.
With regard to occasional performances, their price is also fixed by the council
in a range between 5,000 and 50,000 francs per day of performance.
The fee is paid to the district municipal tax collector with the aid of a document
issued by the competent municipal authorizing officer, against a receipt. It
should be noted that the tax on spectacles is paid before the mandatory date for
the beginning of the show. Thus, the liability intervenes as from the opening
of the show.
2) Sanctions
It is clear that the failure to pay the entertainment tax shall result, as evidenced by
the minutes established by the municipal tax collector, in the stopping of the show
or the closure of the hall. In this case, removal of seals shall be done only after
payment of a fine equal to 100% of the said dues, in addition to the duties owed.