(2).
1) Broadening the scope of tax offences liable to prosecution
282. Under section M 108 of the Manual of Tax Procedures, as amended by the 2023 Finance
law, assault, threats or individual manoeuvres aimed at organising a refusal to pay taxes, are now
tax offences and subject to the criminal penalties provided for in Articles L 107 et seq. of the
aforementioned Book of Procedures.
283. For the record, until 31 December 2022, only threats or collective manoeuvres aimed at
organising a refusal to pay the tax were subject to criminal sanctions.
284. From now on, it should be noted that in addition to collective manoeuvres and threats,
individual threats against managers and other staff of collection services or agents and holders of
constraints in the office are also tax offences subject to the criminal penalties provided for in
section M 107 of the Manual of Tax Procedures.
2) Simplification of the referral to the judge by the tax administration
285. Before the Finance Law 2023, the referral of tax offences to the courts by the Minister of
Finance was conditional on a favourable opinion from the tax fraud commission, under the
provisions of section M 112 of the MTP.
286. The 2023 Finance Law abolishes this condition. Therefore, under the new provisions of
section L 112 above, the opinion of the Commission is replaced by the report (the model of which
is proposed in the appendix) drawn up by sworn agents of the tax administration with at least the
rank of inspector and having taken a personal and direct part in the discovery of the facts
constituting the offence.
287. The drafting of the report of the offence constitutes a condition for the admissibility of
the complaint by the Minister of Finance, for the application of the penalties provided for in section
M 107 of the Manual of Tax Procedures.
288. To ensure the effective implementation of procedures for the repression of tax offences,
the services are invited to ensure the quality of the agents responsible for drawing up reports of
offences, in particular by ensuring that they are duly sworn in, have the required rank and have
taken a personal and direct part in the recording of the facts constituting the offence.
289. It is recalled that by the provisions of section M 113 of the Manuel of Tax Procedures,
complaints may be lodged without the need to give the taxpayer prior notice to regularise his
situation.
General Tax Code – 2023 Official Edition - 498

290. They may be filed until the end of the fourth year in which the offence was committed.
The Minister of Finance, therefore, has four