(15)
Services in which they shall record days of the month of collection.
all posters, leaflets and handbills
Such a declaration shall indicate:
which they print.
a) the purpose of the advertising;
In the first month of each quarter,
they shall file a declaration and pay b) the full name, profession or
over the amount of duty collected in trade name, the residence or
the preceding quarter. head office of the persons or
bodies in whose interest the
Posters, leaflets and handbills shall
advertisement is being made
bear the printer’s name and their
and, possibly, the producer of
number in the printing register
the advertising;
carrying the duty paid.
c) the exact site of the hoarding.
b) Posters, leaflets and handbills 3) Press advertising
printed outside Cameroon:
a) Newspapers printed in
Before the importation of such Cameroon:
documents, the users shall declare
Publishers of newspapers printed in
their nature and quantity to the Tax
Cameroon shall collect the
Collection Office of their area of
appropriate stamp duty at the same
residence or head office.
time as payment for the
The payment shall be made within advertisement, and shall declare
the month of entry of the posters, and pay over to their tax Centre of
leaflets and handbills into attachment, at the same time as the
Cameroon at the Tax Collection voluntary payment tax, the amount
Office where the declaration was collected in the preceding month.
made before importation. These
General Tax Code – 2023 Official Edition - 205

For enterprises under the • the full name, address and
specialized management units, the location of the beneficiary of the
stamp duty shall be deducted at advertisement;
source at the time of printing the
• the unit or fixed cost and the
advertisement. Duties thus
number of times it was broadcast;
collected shall be declared and paid
• the duration, date and period of
over to the center of attachment
advertising.
under the same conditions as
voluntary payment taxes. Radio and television stations shall
keep a register countersigned and
b) Newspapers published outside
initialed by the Registration Service
Cameroon but distributed in
for the purpose of controlling
Cameroon
advertisements. The register shall
The publication of an advertisement
show, for each advertisement, the
in a newspaper printed outside
amount of stamp duty collected and
Cameroun but distributed in
references of the payment receipt.
Cameroon shall entail the
declaration and payment of stamp
duty on advertising at the time of
payment of the cost of this
5) Cinema advertising
advertisement.
Cinema operators shall collect the
4) Radio and television
appropriate stamp duty when
advertising
receiving payment for advertising.
Radio and television stations shall They shall declare and pay same to
collect the appropriate stamp duty the Tax Centre to which they are
when receiving payment for attached at the same time as the
advertisements. They shall pay over voluntary payment tax, the amount
to the Tax center to which they are collected during the preceding
attached, at the same time as the month.
voluntary payment tax, the amount
For companies under the
collected during the preceding
specialized management units,
month.
stamp duty on advertising shall be
For enterprises under the deducted at source at the time of
specialized management units, insertion. The stamp duty deducted
stamp duty on advertising shall be shall be declared and paid to the
deducted at source at the time of attachment center under the same
printing the advertisement. Duties conditions as for other taxes, duties
thus deducted shall be declared and and levies.
paid at the relevant center under the
The declaration shall specify:
same conditions as other taxes,
duties and charges. • the purpose of the advertisement;
The declaration shall specify: • the full name, address and
location of the beneficiary of the
• the purpose of the advertisement;
advertisement;
General Tax Code – 2023 Official Edition - 206

• the unit or fixed cost and the paid upon the declaration of its
number of projections; proprietor:
• the duration, date or period of - within the month following the
projection of the advertisement; quarter during which the van was
initially used for advertising;
• the existence of any contract
between the parties. - within the first month of each
quarter for subsequent payments.
Cinema operators shall keep a
register, countersigned and initialed The declaration shall be made at the
by the Registration Service, Tax Collection Office of the
showing the various projections proprietor’s residence or head
made, their cost, the amount of office.
stamp duty collected and references
of their payment. 7) Advertising using intangible
devices
For the collection of stamp duty on
advertising using intangible
devices, advertisers shall submit
6) Advertising using vehicles
their declarations on a monthly
equipped with a public address
basis to their attachment taxation
(PA) System or not
centers;
Before starting to use an advertising
van with loudspeakers, the
8) Free distribution within the
proprietor shall declare it at the
framework of commercial
Registration Service, which shall
promotion;
issue him a receipt to be presented
Stamp duty on advertising shall be
at each inspection by the
payable by companies for the free
Registration Service. The
distribution of the products within
declaration shall specify:
the framework of commercial
• the full name, address and promotion. It shall be declared and
location of the proprietor of the remitted to the tax centre of the
van;
company to which they belong no
• the characteristics of the van and later than the 15th day of the month
the date it was put on the road in following the month in which the
Cameroon; distribution was made.
• its registration number;
DIVISION IV:
• the date of initial use as PENALTIES
advertising van with