(45) days that follow the deposit or the
renewal of the title owner’s bank caution.
PART IX
ADDITIONAL COUNCIL TAX:
Articles 53 to 56: The additional council taxes are collected by the taxation
and customs administrations in favour of the council. The additional tax being
deducted at the same time as the principal of the tax on which they are levied,
their collection follows the lot of these taxes whose collection modalities are those provided for in the
General Tax and the Customs Code.
The product of the additional council tax is distributed as follows:
- 10% to the State, as levying and collection fees;
- 20% in favour of the Special Fund for Mutual Assistance (FEICOM);
General Tax Code – 2023 Official Edition - 432

- 70% in favour of councils, sub divisional councils and city councils.
The distribution and the issue of the additional council tax is done in accordance
with the provisions of articles 55, 115 and 116 of the law on local taxation.
PART X
COUNCILS TAXES
I - THE LOCAL DEVELOPMENT TAX (LDT)
1) General provisions
The Local Development Tax instituted by the law on local taxation is applicable as of right. To this
effect, the collection of the said tax is not subordinate to the vote of the municipal council or the city
council.
The LDT is collected in return for the services such as public lighting, drainage, refuse disposal, the
functioning of ambulances, water and electricity supply. This requirement for consideration derives from
the obligation that weighs on the local communities to work towards the provision of the
abovementioned
services and as well as their maintenance.
Moreover, it should be noted that the product of the LDT is allocated in priority to development or to
the maintenance of services. As such, the expenditure projection for the development and maintenance
of these basic services should be at least equal to the LDT revenue collected during the previous financial
year.
2) Liability
Those liable to the payment of the local development tax are natural persons, including those liable to
the global tax and business license for their professional activities.
The natural persons mentioned here, besides those liable to the business license and discharge/global
tax, include employees of the public or private sector, earners of a monthly salary or a salary arrears.
Nevertheless natural persons having a monthly salary less than CFA 62 000 francs are exonerated
from the payment of the said tax.
3) Assessment
The LDT is levied on the basic salary for workers of the public sector, and on the salary corresponding
to their categories with regards to employees of the
private sector, as well as on the principal of tax, as concerns persons liable to
the discharge/global tax or to business license.
The basic salary refers to the index or wage corresponding to a category,
served to the worker. It does not include allowances and other advantages in
kind which contribute to the gross salary. The basic salary is equally different
from net salary which refers to the gross salary minus the taxes and social
dues.
It is due for natural persons from the payment of the salary to the employee,
and is payable at the same date like every other withholding at source that has
to be carried out from the employee’s salary by the employer.
For natural persons or corporate entities liable to the global tax or the business
license, the LDT is due during payment of the global tax or the business
license on which it is levied. Enterprises of the Large Tax Unit and the METC
are supposed to issue a unique transfer order for the license, which should
specify the share of the LDT.
The law on local taxation fixes the maximum tariffs of the LDT. It is thus left
to the beneficiary councils and city councils to communicate to the taxation
services, the tariffs set by the council within the ranges fixed by the law. When
General Tax Code – 2023 Official Edition - 433

the tariffs are not communicated to the services, the latter apply the maximum
tariffs the maximum tariff of a tax bracket constituting the minimum tariff of
the upper bracket.
For employees of the public sector, the proceeds of the LDT is centralized at
FEICOM and shared to all the councils just as the council additional surtax.
4) Sanctions
Given the specificity of this tax, the sanctions relating to the nonpayment of
the local development tax, follow the procedures applicable to the taxes and
duties on which it is levied.
II- THE OTHER MUNICIPAL TAXES
Articles 61 et 62: General provision relating to communal taxes
The law on council tax institutes besides the local development tax, other
local taxes which are exhaustively enumerated. Councils in the frame of this
enumeration can instate them by deliberation of the municipal council.
Unlike the LDT for which the council is empowered to deliberate on the
rates applicable in the jurisdiction of the municipality, a council tax shall be
levied in the territory of the municipality only if it has been established by
the municipal council. This deliberation where appropriate, shall fix the rates
when the law provides ranges within which the municipality is authorized to
adopt the rates applicable in its territorial jurisdiction.
In more concrete terms, the councils can only collect a municipal tax when
the latter is provided for in article 62 of the law on local taxation and has been
instituted by a deliberation of the municipal Council.
On the contrary, when the council has not instituted by deliberation within
its territorial jurisdiction the tax provided for in article 62 of the law on local
taxation, this tax cannot be subject to deduction from the taxpayers of the
council.
A communal tax instituted by deliberation of the municipal council is due by
any person who, within the territorial jurisdiction of the municipality, either
carries out taxable operations, or fulfills the specific criteria provided for by
the law for each tax, such as the keeping a liable good, the exercise of a
taxable activity, liability to a tax of an activity or a situation constituting its
developer as liable to tax.
A- SPECIFIC PROVISIONS TO THE VARIOUS MUNICIPAL TAXES
Articles 63 to 65: The cattle slaughter tax
1) Liability
The cattle slaughter tax is due by everybody who slaughters livestock in a
slaughterhouse developed or managed by the council, whatever the quality of
the person, whether the slaughtered animal is meant for domestic consumption
or for sale. The animals referred to in this circular comprise all livestock with
the exception of poultry and rabbits and rabbits.
Slaughterhouses developed by the council refer to those constructed, repaired
or equipped by the municipality alone or with other public or private persons,
once the latter carried out works there in view of rendering it operational. It
is not necessary that the infrastructure be the property of the municipality,
its participation in its development is sufficient for the collection of the
slaughtering tax.
General Tax Code – 2023 Official Edition - 434

By slaughterhouse managed by the municipality, it should be understood as
those that are either directly administered by the services of the municipality,
or by means of a municipal management, or by a public establishment created
by the council. Also forming part of it are developed slaughter houses or the
premises used as such rented to the council by public or private persons and
directly administered by the council.
The slaughtering tax is not due by the persons take their animals to be killed in
slaughter houses developed or managed by public or private persons other than
the council or communal public establishments duly authorized by virtue of
the legislation applicable in matters of the slaughtering of animals. However,
these persons are not exempted from the payment of service duties and taxes
collected by veterinary services by virtue of the legislation in the domain of
sanitary and veterinary inspection.
2) Assessment
The cattle slaughtering tax is due before any slaughter of animal is underway
and payable at the time of presentation of the animals at the slaughter house,
the latter being the generating act. The council services proceed to this effect
with the registration of the animals to be slaughtered and to the collection of
the duties as specified in article 65