(30)
days to pay the debt. SUBDIVISION I
WARNING REPRESENTING
The Notice of Issue for Collection
AN ORDER
made enforceable by the head of the
TO PAY
Tax Centre having territorial
jurisdiction shall be handled by the Section M 56.- In case of failure to
attached Revenue Collector. The pay the sums mentioned in the
Revenue Collector shall issue the notice of issue for collection within
General Tax Code – 2023 Official Edition 240

the time-limit, and subject to respite SUBDIVISION II:
of payment defined in Section 121 DISTRAINT
of this Manual, the competent Tax
Section M 60.- Upon expiry of the
Revenue Collector of the area
8 (eight) days following receipt by
concerned shall issue a warning
the taxpayer of the order to pay, the
representing an order to pay.
process server shall proceed to seize
Section M 57.- The warning the movable property belonging to
representing an order to pay shall be the debtor. Distraint shall be carried
delivered by process servers. out under conditions laid down by
The warning representing an order the OHADA Uniform Act to
to pay must be delivered directly to organize simplified collection
the taxpayer himself or his procedures and executions.
representative or, in case of
Section M 61.- Distraint shall be
absence, the head of the competent
executed notwithstanding
administrative unit of the area.
opposition. However, where the
Section M 58.- The warning taxpayer offers to pay wholly or
representing an order to pay shall partially, the competent Tax
contain, under pain of nullity, the Revenue Collector of the area shall
references of the notice issued for be authorized to stop the execution.
collection by virtue of which the
Section M 62.- Any claim for the
proceedings are instituted, with the
movable property and effects
detailed listing of the sums claimed
seized, may be entertained in court
showing the principal, the penalties
only one month after the claimant
and costs. It shall state that “this
submitted it to the Tax Revenue
order is an obligation to pay the
Collector who instituted the
debt concerned within 8 (eight)
proceedings.
days, failing which your movable
Pending the ruling, all measures of
property shall be seized”.
conservation shall be taken by the
Section M 59.- Where the warning
Tax Revenue Collector.
representing an order to pay is not
followed by payment within 8 Section M 63.- Where the
(eight) days, following its receipt by collection officer cannot discharge
the taxpayer, the competent Tax his duties because the doors are
Revenue Collector of the area shall locked or due to a refusal to open
take other measures, namely, them, he shall post a guard at the
seizure and sale. door and forthwith notify the
administrative authority who shall
Special or ordinary law measures
order the premises to be opened.
shall be taken by process servers,
The head of the administrative unit
sworn collectors commissioned by
or his representative must be
the Minister in charge of Finance
present during the opening and
and performing the duties of bailiff.
seizure, and sign the report
recording the incident.
General Tax Code – 2023 Official Edition 241

Section M 64.- Measures of the day of such sale, as well as the
conservation must be taken to legal costs.
prevent the secret removal of
The proceeds shall be paid
objects constituting the guarantee
forthwith to the Tax Revenue
of the debt.
Collectors who shall issue a receipt
Section M 65.- In case of failure to to the distrainee and keep the
pay the taxes and fines due by the surplus until total payment of the
debtors, the Tax Revenue Collector costs.
may have to proceed with the Each sale shall be conducted in the
attachment of the said sums being presence of the collector of taxes
held by trustees or debtors of the and shall entail the drawing up of a
taxpayers themselves. report.
The attachment shall be executed at
Section M 68.- Each process served
the instance of the Tax Revenue
must, under pain of nullity, indicate
Collector without prior
the amount of the legal costs fixed
authorization and in the manner
at 1% of the amount of the debt,
provided by the OHADA Uniform
including penalties, not exceeding
Act to organize simplified
CFA francs 100,000, intended to
collection procedures and
remunerate writ servers under
executions.
conditions laid down by order of the
Section M 66.- In case of manifest Minister in charge of finance.
insolvency, a report of insolvency The writs and documents relating to
shall be drawn up by the tax orders to pay, distraints and sales
collection officers in two copies, and any writ aimed at collecting
one of which shall be sent to the Tax taxes, duties and penalties due, as
Revenue Collector to be used as a well as writs and documents
document supporting the statement relating to legal proceedings shall
of irrecoverable assessments. be exempted from stamp duty and
registration formalities. Such
SUBDIVISION III: exemption shall be extended to
SALE originals and copies of incidental
deeds and shall apply to the stamp
Section M 67.- The sale of seized
on bills required for the sale by the
property expressly authorized by
OHADA Uniform Act to organize
the Director General of Taxation
simplified collection procedures
shall be conducted by the
and executions.
auctioneer or, in his absence, the
process server, in the manner in Section M 69.- Any distraint or sale
which sales by court order are conducted contrary to the
conducted. formalities prescribed by this
The sale shall be interrupted once Manual may entail legal
the proceeds are sufficient to pay proceedings against those who
the duties, taxes and fines due on conducted it and they shall bear the
costs thereof.
General Tax Code – 2023 Official Edition 242

Section M 70.-