(5) of the law
on local taxation;
- individuals or corporate bodies under the actual regime are liable to the
license annually according to the global turnover of the vehicles.
For this last case, the transporter of goods or of persons concerned establishes a single license for
all their vehicles at the council hosting the head office of the enterprise.
As concerns the bases of assessment for enterprises fully subjected to the
license, where the turnover is less than five million, the minimum of levy should be retained by
using the range of 0.283 % to 0.400% of annex I concerning the table of the corresponding classes
of licenses and the corresponding brackets.
Articles 29, 30, 31, 32: Sanctions
The sanctions provided for in case of nonpayment, late payment, failure to
display the license or exercise of an illegal or forbidden activity are the same as those provided for
previously.
Also, the following penalties should be applied:
- 10% per month of delay of payment of the license, with a maximum of 30% of the tax due;
- Best judgment assessment for any taxpayer not having paid the license with an increase of 50%
or 100% of the duties due, depending on whether good faith is established or not;
- CFA 10,000 francs in case of failure to display the license;
- Collection of duties for the license in case of the exercise of an illegal or prohibited activity
accompanied by an increase of 100% of the duties, without issuance of the license;
- For the particular case of transport enterprises, the failure to present the
license leads to the impounding of the vehicle.
Moreover, the measures concerning the closure of establishments and
impounding of vehicles are still in force.
PART III:
LIQUOR LICENCES
Articles 33, 34, 35, 36, 37,40 : criteria of liability
Individuals or corporate bodies with or without authorization, carrying out the manufacture, whole
sale or retailing of alcoholic drinks shall be subject to the liquor license.
The same thing holds for importers of the abovementioned drinks, which are equally subject to the
liquor license, even when these drinks constitute the accessory of a principal activity.
As a reminder, the sale of mineral water, gaseous waters, aromatized or not by non alcoholic extracts
and the sale of fresh unfermented juice, when it is carried out in a separate establishment from the
one comprising the taxable drinks does not give rise to liquor license. However, when this water is
sold in the same establishment as the taxable drinks, it is subject to the liquor license.
Articles 43, 44: Assessment modalities
- With regard to the assessment modalities, new tariffs are provided for by the law on local taxation.
The amount of the license due is determined by applying the amount of the license or of the
discharge tax on the tariff corresponding to the category of drinks concerned as follows:
General Tax Code – 2023 Official Edition - 429

Activities Activities
liable to the liable to
Nature of business the
activity license discharge
or global
tax
Amount
Contribution
Class of Basic of the
business to
License element global
license
tax
01 time
Non- 02 times the the
1st class alcoholic business amount
beverages license of the
global tax
02 times
Alcoholic 04 times the the
2nd class beverages business amount
license of the
global tax
However, with regard to operations capable of giving rise to the various licenses realized within the
same establishment, the base to be retained for the calculation of the licenses shall be that of the activity
giving rise to the highest license. Thus for example, if an enterprise offers to its customers at
the same time alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks, the license duty to be taken into account shall be
liquidated on the basis of alcoholic drinks.