Article 103: The tax on advertising
6) Liability
The law on local taxation sets out the provisions of the tax on advertising
that is based on local advertising. The latter includes all publicity carried out
within a municipality or a city council.
Shall therefore be liable to the local tax on advertising, any natural person or
corporate body that carries out advertising campaigns in a place or area within
the territorial jurisdiction of a municipality or a City council.
It should be noted that signs placed on the facades of commercial and
industrial establishments with the sole purpose of locating them, are
excluded from paying the tax. Therefore, it will be a clear distinction
according to whether the sign is accompanied by effect or artifice to
draw the attention of customers, like messages and spots, or when it is
simply a sign designed to identify and locate the establishment.
Also, there might sometimes be confusion between the stamp on publicity
and the tax on advertising, the first is a subregional tax constituting part of a
harmonized law, while the second is a municipal tax. Therefore, liability to
one does not exclude the payment of the other, the two levies can be operated
simultaneously and on the same publicity action given that they fall within a
virtually identical scope.
7) Assessment
Rates of the tax on advertising are set within the following limits:
8) billboards, banners and neon signs: 1,500 F per m2 per face or angle per
year.
b) Vehicles with loudspeakers:
Non-residents: 1,000 F per day per vehicle;
Residents: 30,000 F per year per vehicle.
c) Vehicles without loudspeakers:
Non-residents: 200 F to 500 F per day per vehicle;
Non-residents: 5,000 F 10,000 F per year per vehicle.
d) Sound stores: 500 F per day.
The advertising tax is due at the end of each year when it is permanent or lasts
indefinitely. And if advertising is done in a timely manner or for a specified
period not exceeding 12 months it is due at the end of the period during which
advertisement was carried out.
The person liable for the tax on legal advertising is responsible for implementing
the control of advertising, according to the law governing advertising in
Cameroon.
9) Sanctions
Any advertising action must first be reported to the municipal magistrate, in
order to delimit the period during which it would be carried out. In the event
of noncompliance with this measure the fees are due from the 1st day of the
year, plus penalties of 100% of the amount due in principal.