(1).
Its rate is fixed respectively for cattle and equines at CFA 1,000 francs per
head, for pigs at CFA 400 francs per head and for sheep and goats at CFA 250
francs per head.
3) Sanctions
The fraudulent slaughtering of animals is punished by a fine per head of cattle
killed fixed at CFA 10,000 francs for cattle and equines, and CFA 5,000 francs
for the other animals concerned. This fine which is collected without prejudice
of the sanctions provided for by the legislation in matters of slaughtering and
hygiene, is immediately payable from the moment the offence is noticed by
the municipal agents designated to this effect.
By fraudulent slaughtering, it should be understood in addition to the
slaughtering in slaughter houses developed or managed by the councils of the
animals mentioned in article 64 without payment of the slaughtering duties,
any slaughtering of the said animals in violation of the legislation in matters
of the slaughtering of animals and hygiene. The municipal services should
contact the veterinary services to ensure the respect of the said legislation.
It remains understood that fraudulent slaughtering of animals gives right to the
collection of the slaughter tax normally due at the rates in force, in addition
to the fine for fraud.
It should also be recalled that the slaughtering tax being due before slaughtering
of the animal, the nonpayment of the duties leads to the suspension of the
slaughter until the payment of the tax due.
Articles 66 to 72: The municipal tax on cattle
1) Liability
The council tax on livestock instituted by the law on local taxation is payable
by owners of herds. It is due per year by individuals and entities possessing
herds from the 1st of January of the considered year, no matter whether it is for
domestic or commercial purposes.
Consequently, the livestock council tax is due by persons who rear bovine
in view of selling them alive or in the form of meat (flesh), as canned
General Tax Code – 2023 Official Edition - 435

products, for touristic purpose, for domestic consumption, for scientific or
medical experiences or for any other goal insofar as they are not listed by the
exemptions of Section 67.
The following are exempt from the payment of cattle tax:
- All State owned animals regardless of their use, at the exception of all other
public entities including councils and public establishment;
- The owners and keepers of animals imported from abroad for the purpose
of reproduction, particularly for experimental purposes by scientific and
medical research structures, universities and agricultural training centers
and those imported by structures or individuals in view of reproduction in
breeding farms;
- Owners or keepers of animals employed in plowing and other agricultural
exploitations. This concerns animals used for labour activities. Those used
to drag carriages are liable to the payment of the tax if only they are not
employed for labour activities as well;
- Owners and keepers of animals bred by charitable organisations for social
works. Charity works shall refer to services rendered by recognized public
utility organisms carrying out non-profit making activities. They are exempt
from the cattle tax solely for the keeping of animals used for a social goal,
that is, they are bred for the consumption of pensioners, in the course of
their training or apprenticeship agropastoral profession.
2) Liability and assessment modalities
The council cattle tax is payable no later than the 15 March of the fiscal year
in respect of the number of cattle kept or owned. The taxpayer shall declare no
later than the above mentioned date to the council of localization of the herds.
The tax rate is decided by the municipal council within the range of 200 and
500 CFA FRANCS per head.
For the purpose of cattle tax, Council of localization of herds shall mean, the
benefiting municipality of the proceeds of the tax, which may be the council
or rural council where the animals are situated.
It is important to note that, when the taxpayer has paid the tax on livestock for
a given year, his displacement within the jurisdiction of another municipality
does not entail the payment of a new tax on the same animal for the same year.
The taxpayer need only prove that he paid tax to another municipality.
A headcount of taxable animals is organized every year by the council of
location in conjunction with livestock services. This control is done at the
initiative of the council that determines the procedures under its jurisdiction.
Moreover, it should be recalled that, the payment of council taxes on livestock
does not exclude, where appropriate, the taxing for discharge tax or income
tax for the same animals when they perform activities liable to these taxes.
Thus, where a cattle owner who is liable to municipal tax on livestock also
exercises in a regular manner the activities of a livestock dealer, he shall be
liable based on his turnover, to personal income tax (PIT) according to the
regime in which he is classified or discharge tax as referred to in paragraphs
b, c, and d of Article 46