(06)
months. Stamp duty on motor vehicles must be collected fully at the moment of the initial
subscription. Following renewal on the 15th of September; stamp duty on motor vehicles cannot be
claimed for the same year 2017.
3) The case where the period of an insurance policy corresponds to the civil year: when the
insurance policy covers a period from 1st of January to 31th of December, stamp duty on motor
vehicles is collected fully at the moment of subscription or during its renewal.
This reform applies as from the 1st of January 2017. As such insurance companies shall collect stamp
duty on motor vehicles against all insurance policies taken out within this year, including those done
in anticipation.
III- The procedure of filing returns and remittance of stamp duty on motor vehicles
A. The payment of stamp duty on motor vehicles by the insured
1) Payment through the Insurance Company
When an insured takes out his insurance policy, the insurance company also collects the
corresponding stamp duty on motor vehicles in accordance with the provisions of Section 597 of the
General Tax Code.
The receipt issued by the insurance company must obligatorily bear the insurance premium, the
Value Added Tax (VAT) and the amount of the motor vehicle stamp duty paid by the insured.
When renewing the insurance policy within the same year by a new insurance company, the insured
has to present his expired insurance certificate with the corresponding receipt as the case may be so
as to avoid paying the same duty twice.
The insurance company justifies the non collection of stamp duty on motor vehicles during the
renewal by presenting both the expired insurance certificate and its corresponding receipt.
General Tax Code – 2023 Official Edition - 411

2) Payment through an intermediary
When the insurance policy is subscribed through an intermediary, he collects the stamp duty using
the same procedure and pays it to its insurance company. The latter should in no way invoke the
deadline for remittance of the insurance premium or the late remittance by the intermediary to justify
the late payment of the stamp duty on motor vehicles. All late payments are sanctioned in accordance
with the provisions of the Manual of Tax Procedures.
Insurance companies must keep manual and electronic statistics to follow up policies given out by
their intermediaries. These statistics must indicate the certificates issued per intermediary with their
serial numbers, the subscriptions done as well as the period covered by each certificate.
B. The procedure for filing returns and remittance by the insurer
1) The procedure for filing returns
In conformity with the provisions of Section 598 of The General Tax Code, the filing of returns for
the stamp duty on motor vehicles is henceforth the responsibility of the legally liable person: the
insurance company. It must comply not later than the 15th of the month following month of collection.
Practically, the filing of returns of the stamp duty on motor vehicles is done using the turnover and
income taxes form that contains a line “stamp duty on motor vehicles”. It must be accompanied by a
detailed slip of the policies taken out for the period especially the vehicle’s registration number, its
Vehicle Identification Number, horse power, the amount of duties paid and the period involved.
Concerning insurance policies subscribed in anticipation in the month of December 2016 and
covering 2017, insurance companies must in this case collect the stamp duty on motor vehicles in
accordance with the reform.
2) Procedure for remittance
In conformity with the provisions of Section 598 of The General Tax Code, the stamp duty on motor
vehicles is collected and remitted to the tax collector of the centre of the insurance company not later
than the 15th of the month following the month of payment by the insured.
The delay in the remittance of the insurance premium by the intermediary to its company is not
binding on the Tax Administration.
The stamp duty on motor vehicles collected by insurance companies and filed in their returns must
be remitted through bank transfer into the account of the tax collector of their centers in accordance
with the provisions of Section M8 of The Manual of Tax procedures.
IV- The control procedure of the stamp duty on motor vehicles
The collection of stamp duty on motor vehicles having been coupled with the insurance premium
subscribed by the insured, proof of payment is by a special procedure.
In order to ensure effective payment of this duty by all vehicle owners, special controls have been
earmarked.
A. The proof of payment of stamp duty on motor vehicles
The proof of payment of stamp duty on motor vehicles is by presenting the insurance certificate
issued by an insurer.
General Tax Code – 2023 Official Edition - 412

In any case, the ownership of a current insurance certificate is proof of payment by the person legally
liable for the stamp duty on motor vehicles. The insurance certificate must not be issued until
complete payment of duties in principal and penalties.
The insurance certificate obtained from an insurer carries a unique identifier and an enhanced barcode
to attest its authenticity.
B. Persons entrusted with the authority to carry out control
In conformity with the provisions of Section 602 of The General Tax Code, the control of the stamp
duty on motor vehicles is done by duly assigned tax agents from the Directorate General of Taxation
with the assistance of agents from the insurance companies and traffic police.
The agents of insurance companies taking part in control must be duly authorized by their respective
companies.
C. The procedure and monitoring of control
The control of the stamp duty on motor vehicles is carried out in two forms:
- joint controls carried out quarterly by the agents of the Ministry of Finance (DGT), those of the
Transport Ministry, the forces of law and order (police and gendarmerie), and insurance companies;
- controls by traffic police in their routine missions.
Joint control missions are supervised by the Tax Administration which defines the practical
modalities of the deployment of control missions over the national territory and also ensures follow
up.
In a situation where the control team discovers an offence concerning the stamp duty on motor
vehicles, (failure to pay or absence of proof of payment), the vehicle or motorcycle is impounded,
personal documents of the driver as well as those of the vehicle or motorcycle are confiscated and
deposited at the competent Taxation services against a receipt. These documents cannot be retrieved
unless the defaulters must have presented their insurance certificates duly issued by an insurance
company following payment of the stamp duty on motor vehicles as well as the penalties.
As a reminder, only insurance companies have the right to collect stamp duty on motor vehicles
including duties collected after control missions.
V- Penalties
Penalties for the person legally liable are those enshrined in the Manual of Tax Procedures. They are
not peculiar.
As concerns the insured, two types of sanctions are earmarked: Fiscal and penal sanctions meted out
on offences in matters of stamp duty on motor vehicles.
A. Offences punishable in the domain of stamp duty on motor vehicles
In conformity with the provisions of Section 601 of The General Tax Code, the following offences
are punishable under Tax and penal laws:
- Lack of proof to attest the payment of stamp duty on motor vehicles to agents in charge of control;
- The nonpayment of stamp duty on motor vehicles duly found during control;
General Tax Code – 2023 Official Edition - 413

- The nonpayment of motor vehicle stamp duty by the insured who has failed to subscribe or renew
his insurance policy after it expired at the end of the year.Fiscal and penal sanctions
While fiscal sanctions are meted for compliance offences on motor vehicle stamp duty as recalled
above, penal sanctions are only applied on offences discovered during road checks.
B. Fiscal sanctions
In conformity with the provisions of Section 601 of The General Tax Code, the nonpayment,
payment after the deadline or the absence of proof of payment on stamp duty on motor vehicles by
the person legally liable is punishable by penalties equivalent to 100% of the principal duty.
Furthermore, the implementation of the provisions of Section M78 of the Manual of Tax
Procedures, the failure to present current insurance certificate to control agents leads to the
impounding of the vehicle in accordance with specific rules and regulations in this sector.
1. Penal sanctions
According to the provisions of Section 601