(8) days of the
signing of the report on the closure of the proceedings, the latter shall become null and void and
the observations of the tax authorities shall be deemed not to have been accepted by the taxpayer.
213. The spontaneous regularisations made in the context of a compliance dialogue procedure
shall not give rise to the application of the increases provided for in Article L96 of the General
Tax Code, per the provisions of Article L34 of the Book of Tax Procedures, insofar as no notice
of verification or notification of control on documents has been notified to the taxpayer on the date
of settlement of the spontaneous regularisations resulting from this procedure. The late payment
interest provided for in Article L 106 of the CGI remains due and must be paid.
214. Regularisations under this procedure are made based on a tax assessment notice generated
by the taxpayer through the website of the Directorate General of Taxes at www.impots.cm. The
Division in charge of information technology shall take all the necessary steps to ensure strict
compliance with these provisions.
b. In case the taxpayer does not accept the observations of the tax administration
should the said observations be partially accepted
215. If at the end of the exchange of views, there are still differences between the parties, the
compliance dialogue procedure may lead to a proposal for scheduling a tax audit by the tax
administration.
216. Scheduling requests are sent by the tax office to the Director General of Taxation. They
must be accompanied by the documents of the compliance dialogue procedure, in particular the
report noting the taxpayer's non-acceptance of the Administration's observations, as well as the
risk analysis which sets out in a reasoned and detailed manner the quantified tax implications.
217. Therefore, no proposal for an audit programme is allowed before the finalisation of the
compliance dialogue procedure.
218. The Division in charge of tax audit programming is responsible for ensuring the timely
scheduling of audit procedures as proposals are received by the services.
General Tax Code – 2023 Official Edition - 491

219. This provision shall apply to compliance dialogue procedures initiated on or after 1
January 2023.
o Section M 28 bis.- Establishment of a mechanism to improve the quality of
adjustments in tax audits
220. With the 2023 Finance Law, the Director General of taxation may, in the course of a tax
audit procedure, be asked to arbitrate on certain proposed tax adjustments when the differences of
opinion between the taxpayer and the department in charge of the audit are obvious and the
proposed levels of taxation are likely to prejudice the taxpayer's continued activity. This circular
specifies the conditions for referring a case to the Director General of taxation