(2) and 117)
General Tax Code – 2023 Official Edition - 448

To ensure the harmonious development of all decentralized local authorities,
the product of the following taxes and duties is centralized by FEICOM and
redistributed to all municipalities according to the criteria and procedures laid
down by statutorily.
These are:
- The additional council taxes;
- The share of annual forestry royalty allocated to the municipalities;
- Windscreen licenses;
- The local development tax due by public sector employees.
City councils do not benefit from the annual forestry royalties.
The product of the windscreen license is entirely centralized and distributed to
all councils and city councils, to the exclusion of district councils.
The intermunicipal and equalization revenue is levied, collected and controlled
by the taxation authorities. Their total allocation is made to FEICOM for
centralization and distribution according to the quotas allocated to each
entitled entity.
PART XIII:
REGIONAL TAXES AND LEVIES
(Articles 118 and 119)
A / Tax revenue allocated to regions
The following taxes dues and levies listed below shall be entirely or partially
allocated to the regional authorities :
- Stamp duty on vehicle registration cards;
- Airport stamp duty;
- The axle tax;
- Royalties on forest, wildlife and fisheries resources;
- Royalties on water resources;
- Royalties on oil resources;
- Taxes and royalties on mineral resources;
- The levy on fish stocks and breeding;
- Taxes or royalties on energy resources;
- Taxes and or royalties on tourism resources;
- Taxes and royalties on airspace;
- Taxes and or royalties on resources of the gas sector;
- Royalty on road usage;
- Exploitation rights of institutions classified as hazardous, unhealthy or
inconvenient;
- Any other tax, duty or royalty allocated by the State.
B / The tax competence of the regions
For the products of taxes assigned to the regions, listed by the provisions
of section 118, the tax authority is the only organ responsible for levying,
collecting and controlling them. Accordingly, the regions have no specific tax
competence per say.
While waiting for the effective putting in place of the regions, the products
or shares of taxes, dues and royalties devolved to them will continue to be
assigned to the public Treasury.
PART XIV:
TAX PROCEDURES SPECIFIC TO LOCAL TAXES
GENERAL PROVISIONS
General Tax Code – 2023 Official Edition - 449

Articles 120 and 121: Scope of applicatio n of procedures specific to Local Taxes
For the implementation of the provisions relating to taxes, duties and dues
of decentralized local authorities, the service shall apply the specific rules of
procedure provided for each levy. However, in the absence of such procedural
details, the provisions of the Book on Tax Procedures of the General Tax Code
shall apply automatically.
Collection operations of collecting these local taxes cannot be the subject
of concessions to third parties, under pain of nullity. In other words, the
prerogatives of tax collection may never be ceded to persons other than
officers duly authorized by law to collect such taxes and duties. All existing
concessions are null and void.
I - REGISTRATION AND DECLARATION OBLIGATIONS
BY TAXPAYERS